# Loading an Application {#LOADING_APPLICATION}

Once the application image (`.appimage`/`.mcelf`) is created one needs to copy or flash these to a supported boot media so that the application can start executing once the SOC is powered ON

When flashing the application we also need to flash a bootloader or SBL image.

## Tools

<table>
<tr>
	<th colspan="4">Tools
</tr>
<tr>
	<td bgcolor=#F0F0F0><b>Device type</b>
    <td bgcolor=#F0F0F0><b>CCS Loading (@ref CCS_LAUNCH_PAGE) </b>
	<td bgcolor=#F0F0F0><b>@ref TI_UNIFLASH_TOOL</b>
    <td bgcolor=#F0F0F0><b>Script based loading (@ref TOOLS_BOOT)</b>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>HS-FS device
    <td>Supported
	<td>Supported only for .appimage binaries
	<td>Supported
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>HS-SE device
    <td>Not Supported
	<td>Not Supported (verify)
	<td>Supported
</tr>
</table>

## Loading via CCS

There are 3 methods to load a binary via CCS:
	- Loading an existing .out
	- Build and load .out directly in CCS
	- Load .appimage via SBL JTAG UNIFLASH

### Loading an executable in CCS

- A .out binary could be generated by either makefile build or via CCS build.
- To load a makefile generated binary, launch target configuration in CCS --> click load program --> click "Browse"
- Go to the binary path, select and click enter.
- To load CCS built binary, click on "Browse projects" instead and select the binary from the list of projects.

- For detailed explanation refer \ref CCS_LOAD_RUN

### Build and load using 1 click

- Projects imported in CCS can be loaded and run on the EVM with single click.

- Refer \ref CCS_PROJECTS_1CLICK_DEBUG for steps.

### Loading appimage via SBL JTAG UNIFLASH

- This is a flash-writer example which uses JTAG to write files or erase flash.
- It can perform the following operations:

	- Flash the received file at the given offset
    - Verify if the data in the received file is present at the given offset
    - Erase the entire flash.

- Refer \ref EXAMPLES_DRIVERS_SBL_JTAG_UNIFLASH for steps.

## Loading via TI Uniflash tool

- TI UniFlash Tool is used for programming "On-chip" and "External flash" memory on TI microcontrollers.
- It offers both GUI and command line interfaces.

- Refer \ref TI_UNIFLASH_TOOL for detailed information.

## Script based loaders/flashwriters

Tool				|	Description
--------------------|-------------
uart_bootloader.py	|	Sends the SBL and appimage binaries over UART using XMODEM protocol
uart_uniflash.py	|	Flashes SBL and applications to EVM flash using UART
can_bootloader.py	|	Sends the application binaries over CAN given the SBL is already flashed
can_uniflash.py		|	Flashes the application binaries after sending it over CAN given the SBL is already flashed

### UART_BOOTLOADER
Refer \ref UART_BOOTLOADER_PYTHON_SCRIPT for details.

### UART_UNIFLASH Flashwriter
Refer \ref TOOLS_FLASH_UART_UNIFLASH for details.

### CAN_BOOTLOADER
Refer \ref CAN_BOOTLOADER_PYTHON_SCRIPT for details.

### CAN_UNIFLASH Flashwriter
Refer \ref EXAMPLES_DRIVERS_SBL_CAN_UNIFLASH for details.

## Flashing a hello world application

Steps to flash the SDK hello world example is mentioned here \ref GETTING_STARTED_FLASH

## Next step - Running the application
Go to \ref RUNNING_APPLICATION