# SBL Booting Linux From OSPI {#SBL_BOOTING_LINUX_OSPI}

[TOC]

## Introduction

- SBL booting Linux (see \ref EXAMPLES_DRIVERS_SBL_OSPI_LINUX) is a secondary bootloader application that boots Linux on A53 core and RTOS/NORTOS application on R5, M4 cores.
- The bootloader makes use of two appimages
    - One containing the application images(RTOS/NORTOS) for R5, M4 cores
    - Other containing the Linux binaries(ATF, OPTEE, SPL) for A53 core.
- The Linux appimage can be generated by using \ref LINUX_APPIMAGE_GEN_TOOL
- The appimages will be flashed to the offset specified by SysCfg, the SBL parses the appimages from these locations, loads and run the cores.

## Features Supported

- Boots R5, M4 cores and Linux on A53 from OSPI.
- SBL booting Linux can be used when early booting of R5 and M4 cores are required. When using uBoot to run R5 and M4 cores the application will start running on R5, M4 cores only after booting Linux

## Features NOT Supported

- SBL booting Linux supports only booting from OSPI and eMMC (see \ref EXAMPLES_DRIVERS_SBL_EMMC_LINUX).
- If SD card or other boot modes are required, user might need to switch to booting Linux using Linux uBoot.

## Bootflow for SBL booting linux from OSPI

\note The binaries for R5, M4 cores need not be in the linux root partition `(root/lib/firmware)`, when SBL is booting Linux.

- The bootflow for SBL booting Linux is as follows

    \imageStyle{sbl_booting_linux_ospi.png,width:60%}
    \image html sbl_booting_linux_ospi.png "Bootflow for SBL booting Linux"

## SRAM memory layout for SBL booting Linux

\note The memory load address for core applications must not overlap with one other
\attention The load address for R5 and M4 core applications must be consistant with the memory layout in Linux dts

- Shown below is the memory map in SRAM for SBL booting Linux

    \imageStyle{sram_memory_map.png,width:20%}
    \image html sram_memory_map.png "SRAM memory map for SBL booting Linux"

## OSPI memory layout for SBL booting Linux from OSPI

\note The flash address R5, M4 appimages and Linux appimages can be configured using Syscfg

- The default OSPI flash location is as below

    \imageStyle{ospi_memory_layout.png,width:20%}
    \image html ospi_memory_layout.png "OSPI memory map for SBL booting Linux"

## SD card Partitioning

\note The default SD card image for AM64x-evm can be used to boot Linux using SBL
\note The tiboot3.bin, tispl.bin will not be used for booting Linux when using SBL booting Linux.
\note The R5 binaries in the root partition (eg : `root/lib/firmware/am64-main-r5f0_0-fw`) will not be used when SBL boots Linux and R5,M4 cores.

- The default Linux SD card image for AM64x-evm has two partitons
    - A FAT partition (boot) contatining
        - tiboot3.bin
        - tispl.bin
        - u-boot.img
        - uboot.env
    - A ext4 partition (root) containing
        - Linux Kernel image
        - Linux DTB
        - Linux file system

## See Also

- \ref EXAMPLES_DRIVERS_SBL_OSPI_LINUX
- \ref LINUX_APPIMAGE_GEN_TOOL